[original](https://web.archive.org/web/20061015072141/http://freegw.xs4all.nl/~basp/wordpress/index.php/2006/03/12/javascript-i-think-i-love-you/)

# Posted on Sunday 12 March 2006
A few year’s ago I was doing a graduation project at Philips Medical Systems 
together with a fellow student. Our task was to implement some kind of browser 
interface to design flowcharts. Eventually, our solution was based around a 
grid where each cell would define it’s own layout and could validate itself 
according to it’s neighbours in the grid. The whole thing was JavaScript based
and persistence was handled by posting a dynamically created form to a PHP script.

Although we never got to fully clean up the implementation, the thing did work 
pretty well and was (and still is) pretty advanced JavaScript technology. It 
had to run in some kind of weird “template” system designed by the “guys that 
came before me” and that was pretty nasty but eventually we got stuff to work 
around and with that too.

Now, a few years later I had almost completely lost my touch with JavaScript 
if it wasn’t for a particular web-based problem we couldn’t “ViewState” our 
way out of. The client wanted drill down lookups and my boss wanted a generic 
solution. Our current solution is very generic but requires the users to 
postback at least a dozen times to get to the required lookup result. Although 
it works it rates pretty bad on the usability scales so now I’ve re-implemented 
the whole thing using JavaScript instead of relying on post-backs and .NET 
controls do to their job…

And mama, mia! What the #$ck have I been doing lately? Sleeping? Why don’t I 
use JavaScript in my projects anymore like I used to do… JavaScript kicks ass! 
Now that I’ve been from QBasic to Pascal to Assembler, Visual Basic, Delphi, 
Java, VBScript (ASP), C, C++, PHP, Python, Visual Basic.NET, C#, Smalltalk, 
Ruby and Lisp I can say that there are quite a few languages I would 
like to work with at the end of that list but that’s not an option right now 
unfortunately. Luckely though there’s JavaScript which allows me to do some 
amazing things... Even if it has to be in a browser.